Open System :: A system which is connected to the network and is ready for communication .

Closed System :: A system which is not connected to the network and can not be communicated with .

Computer network :: Computer Network is a group of computers connected with each other through wires , 
optical fibres or optical links so that various device can interact with each other through a network .
The computers use common communication protocols over digital interconnection to communicate  with each other .

uses of computer network :: 
1. It facilitates communication from one computer to another computer .
2. exchange of data 
3. it allows you to share such as printers , scanners etc.


Netork packet is a formatted unit of data carried by a packet-switched network .

In computing , bandwidth is the maximum rate of data transfer across a given path .

Network Devices ::
Router
Hub
Bridge
Wireless router
switch
wireless Bridge

Network topology ;
Bus 
star
MESH
Ring 
Daisy Chain
HYBRID
Tree 

OSI open Systems Interconnection . It is a reference model that 
sepecifies standards for communication protocols and also the functionalities of each layer .

Protocol ::
A protocol is the set of rules which define the way how entities can communicate across the network 

Subnet mask ::
is used to divide an Ip address into two parts . one part identifies the host (computer) , the other part identifies 
the network to which it belongs .

Examples :: TCP IP UDP ARP DHCP FTP

Unique indentifiers of network ::
1. Hostname
2. IP address
3. MAC address (a mac address is assigned to the NIC at the time of manufacturing . )

Host name :: each device in the network is associated with a unique name known as HOStNAME .
IP address
also known as logical address
IANA assigns IPv4 
IPv4 :: 32 bits
IPv6 :: 128-bits

type :: ipconfig 
MAC address (Media access control address) or physical address 
is a unique physical address assigned to each network adapter in a computer or mobile device .

More than one mac address .

Port ::
A port can be referred to as a logical channel through which data can be sent/received to an application .

A port number is a 16-bit integer 
2^16 65,536

netstat -a

Socket : unique combination of ip address and port number together are termed as socket .

DNS (domain name system)
DNS is basically server which translate web addresses or URLs  (ex:google.com) into their corresponding IP addresses .
nslookup command .


ARP : Address resolution protocol
IP -> mac
used by the DATA Link layer .

RARP reverse address resolution protocol .