How did it start ?

ICP : Internet Service provider
Ip : Internet protocol
www : world wide web

Computer Network is a group of computers connected with each other through wires , 
optical fibres or optical links so that various device can interact with each other through a network .

Major components of a computer network are :
NIC (National interface card) is a device that helps the computer to communicate with another device .

Hub
Hub is a central device that splits the network connection into multiple devices .

Switches :
switch is a networking device that groups all the devices over the network to transfer the data to another device .


Cables and connectors

Types of cables ::
Twisted pair Cable
coaxial cable 
fibre optic cable


Router is a device that connects the LAN to the internet .

Modem : connects the computer to the internet over the exiting telephone line .

Computer networks :
LAN (Local area network)
PAN (personal)
MAN(Metropolitan)
WAN(Wide)


LAN ::
Building , office

PAN :: 
10m range 

MAN ::
larger geographic area by interconnecting a different LAN to form a larger network .
Government agencies use MAN to connect to the citizens and private industries .

WAN : is a network that extends over a large geographical area such as states or countries .




What is topology ?
Topology defines the structure of the network of how all the components are interconnected to each other .

Two types of topology : physical and logical 
BUS RING TREE STAR MESH HYBRID .

BUS :: 
backbone cable -> single cable 

RING ::
topology is like a bus topology , but with connected ends .

STAR ::
central Computer is an known as a server .
devices attached to the server are known as clients .
Efficient troubleshooting as compare to bus ring.

TREE = BUS + star .

MESH : technology is an arrangement of the network in which computers are interconnected with each other through various redundant connections .
MESH :: 
NUmber of cables = (n*(n-1))/2 n :: no. of nodes that represent network .